Welcome back. At this point,
we have our first Express application up and running.
Looking back at the code,
we can try to understand what just happened here.
To see the code, open up your project files in whichever editor you use.
In this video, we'll walk through each line of code to explain how this app works.
Start by going to your index.js file.
This first line sets a constant name "Express" that requires the express package.
To see what's going on in the next line,
it helps to go back to the documentation.
Under Guide, Writing middleware,
you'll see that they broke this line down for you. Here's what it's doing.
On the variable app,
it's calling the Get method.
It's looking down a certain path here,
then passing in a request and a response.
This request-response is similar to what you
learned about the client-server relationship from earlier.
The client makes a request,
and the server sends a response. Same thing here.
As you can see, that's exactly what we're doing in our code.
Here's the path, the request, and the response.
One thing you'll notice, is that our code
look a little different than what's on the site.
It uses something known as an arrow function.
This is a newer syntax in JavaScript that's meant to replace the curly braces.
This helps us put everything in one line,
rather than spreading it across multiple lines.
We could put them back in like on the website,
and it would work exactly the same way.
This last piece here is sending "Hello World!"
to our application.
Next, here's what the last line is doing.
It's giving us a place to see the application,
and telling us that it has done that successfully.
This part here is what we read in the terminal when we first ran the application.
This first part of the line opens up port 3,000 and lets us view it from there.
This is why we can view the application on localhost 3,000 using our browser.
So, that's basically everything that's going on here.
It's a small amount of code,
but grasping the concepts,
connecting the pieces, and feeling comfortable
with what's going on is important at this point.
If anything feels unclear,
you can always continue working through
the documentation or playing around with the code to see how things changed.
It could also help to experiment with more examples.
So, feel free two continue through the Express.js
Resources to work through the guides they've created.
If you've followed along, then great job building your first Express application.
If not, then hopefully you have some time to try and get this started for yourself.